## 116.拓展阅读
#### 第一章 个人危机


本章列出的文献主要是一些近期出版的书籍，介绍了有关危机治疗领域的现状，还有一些较早出版的书籍、文章，介绍了该领域的进展状况。



Donna C. Aguilera and Janice M. Messick.
 Crisis Intervention:Theory and Methodology,
 3rd ed. (Mosby, St. Louis, MO, 1978).



Robert Calsyn, Joseph Pribyl, and Helen Sunukjian. Correlates of successful outcome in crisis intervention therapy.
 American Journal of Community Psychology
 5: 111–119(1977).



Gerald Caplan.
 Principles of Preventive Psychiatry.
 (Basic Books,New York, 1964).



Gerald Caplan. Recent developments in crisis intervention and the promotion of support service.
 Journal of Primary Prevention
 10: 3–25(1985).



Priscilla Dass- Brailsford.A
 Practical Approach to Trauma.
 (Sage Publications, Los Angeles, CA, 2007).



James L. Greenstone and Sharon C. Leviton.
 Elements of Crisis Intervention: Crises and How to Respond to Them
 , 3rd ed.(Brooks Cole,Belmont, CA, 2011).



Charles Holahan and Rudolf Moos. Life stressors, resistancefactors,and improved psychological functions: An extension of the stress resistance paradigm.
 Journal of Personality and Sociopsychology
 58: 909–917 (1990).



Gerald Jacobson. Programs and techniques of crisis intervention.Pp.810–825,in
 Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Socioculture and Community Psychiatry
 , ed. G. Caplan. (Basic Books, New York, 1974).



Gerald Jacobson. Crisis- oriented therapy.
 Psychiatric Clinics of North America
 2, no. 1: 39–54 (1979).



Gerald Jacobson, Martin Strickler, and Wilbur Morley. Generic and individual approaches to crisis intervention.
 American Journal of Public Health
 58: 338–343 (1968).



Richard James and Burt Gilliland.
 Crisis Intervention Strategies
 , 8th ed.(Cengage, Boston, 2016).



Erich Lindemann.
 Beyond Grief: Studies in Crisis Intervention.
 (Jason Aronson, New York, 1979).



Rick A. Myer.
 Assessment for Crisis Intervention: A Triage Assessment Model.
 (Brooks Cole, Belmont, CA, 2001).



Howard J. Parad, ed.
 Crisis Intervention: Selective Readings.
 (Family Service Association of America, New York, 1965).



Kenneth Yeager and Albert Roberts, eds.
 Crisis Intervention Handbook:
 Assessment, Treatment, and Research
 , 4th ed. (Oxford University Press, New York, 2015).



Papers in the journal Crisis:
 The Journal of Crisis Intervention and Suicide Prevention.
 (Volumes 1–38, 1980–2017).



#### 第二章 苏芬之战


学术书籍的最后通常都会有几十页的注释内容，作者旨在通过这些注释引导读者找到书中的论述所基于的专业期刊论文和一些图书资源。这种方法在我的前几本书（《第三种黑猩猩》《枪炮、病菌与钢铁》《性趣探秘》《崩溃》《历史的自然实验》）中很常见，我在这些书中引用了一些专业性极强的文献，大部分读者都很难找到这些文献的资源，例如，有关新石器时代大粒野生谷物的地理分布的文献。这就导致文献数量繁多，进而会使整本书变得又厚又重，而且价格昂贵。一位朋友曾向我抱怨：「贾雷德，我很喜欢看你的书，但你的书实在太重了，每当我晚上躺在床上拿着你的书看时，脖子和手臂都会酸痛，你的下本书能不能不要做这么重？」



在上一本书《昨日之前的世界》中，我把所有的注释和文献都放在网站上，而不是像原来那样放在书的最后，这确实使这本书变得更薄、更轻，也更便宜。我也因此能够得知有多少人会真正去网站上查阅那些注释和文献。结果我发现，每年全世界只有一两个人会登录这个网站。



因此，在这本书中我想尝试不一样的方法，只提供那些可能会对读者有价值而且读者容易找到的文献。我在本书中列出的阅读书目大部分都能够在一些大的综合性图书馆中找到，而那些较为专业的学术期刊中的文章在本书中没有被列出。读者如果想要进一步了解我在书中探讨的国家，可以阅读这些书目，会发现这些书内容有趣且很容易理解。倘若有读者愿意就我下一本书中文献的类型选择提供一些建议，我将不胜感激。



Seppo Hentilä, Markku Kuisma, Pertti Haapala, and Ohto Manninen.Finlandization for better and for worse.
 Historical Journal/Historiallinen Aikakauskirja
 . No. 2: 129–160 (1998).



Max Jakobson.
 Finland Survived: An Account of the Finnish-Soviet Winter War 1939–1940
 , 2nd ed. (Otava, Helsinki, 1984).



Eino Jutikkala and Kauko Pirinen.
 A History of Finland
 , 6th ed. (WS Bookwell Oy, Helsinki, 2003).



Sakari Jutila.
 Finlandization for Finland and the World
 . (European Research Association, Bloomington, IN, 1983).



Urho Kekkonen.
 A President's View
 . (Heinemann, London, 1982).



Tiina Kinnunen and Ville Kiviimäki, eds.
 Finland in World War 2:
 History, Memory, Interpretations
 . (Brill, Leiden, 2012).



Matti Klinge.
 A Brief History of Finland
 , 3rd ed. (Otava, Helsinki,2000).



Walter Laqueur.
 The Political Psychology of Appeasement:
 Finlandization and Other Unpopular Essays
 . (Transaction Books, New Brunswick, NJ, 1980).



Ohto Manninen, Riitta Hjerppe, Juha- Antti Lamberg, Markku Kuisma,and Pirjo Markkola. Suomi—Finland.
 Historical Journal/Historiallinen
 Aikakauskirja
 . No. 2: 129–160 (1997).



George Maude.
 The Finnish Dilemma: Neutrality in the Shadow of Power
 . (Oxford University Press, London, 1976).



Johanna Rainio-Niemi.
 The Ideological Cold War: The Politics of Neutrality in Austria and Finland
 . (Routledge, New York, 2014).



Esko Salminen.
 The Silenced Media: The Propaganda War between Russia and the West in Northern Europe
 . (St. Martin' s Press, New York,1999).



William Trotter. A Frozen Hell:
 The Russo-Finnish Winter War of 1939–
 40.
 (Algonquin Books, Chapel Hill, NC, 1991).



Steven Zaloga.
 Gustaf Mannerheim.
 (Osprey, Oxford, 2015).



https://www.sotasampo.fi/en/cemeteries/list 该网站提供了芬兰所有地方公墓的资料，列出了长眠于各公墓的人的姓名、出生日期、出生地点和人数，还列出了失踪人口数量。



www.sotasampo.fi 该网站提供了有关二战期间的芬兰和芬兰人的大量资料。



#### 第三章 近代日本的起源


Michael Auslin.
 Negotiating with Imperialism: The Unequal Treaties and the Culture of Japanese Diplomacy
 . (Harvard University Press,Cambridge, MA, 2004).



W.G. Beasley.
 The Japanese Experience: A Short History of Japan
 .(University of California Press, Berkeley, 1999).



Daniel Botsman.
 Punishment and Power in the Making of Modern Japan.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2005).



Takashi Fujitani.
 Splendid Monarchy: Power and Pageantry in Modern Japan.
 (University of California Press, Berkeley, 1996).



Carol Gluck.
 Japan's Modern Myths: Ideology in the Late Meiji Period.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1985).



Robert Hellyer.
 Defining Engagement: Japan and Global Contexts,
 1640–1868.
 (Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA, 2009).



Marius Jansen.
 Sakamoto Ryōma and the Meiji Restoration.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1961).



Donald Keene.
 Emperor of Japan: Meiji and His World, 1852–1912.
 (Columbia University Press, New York, 2002).



Kyu Hyun Kim.
 The Age of Visions and Arguments: Parliamentarianism and the National Public Sphere in Early Meiji Japan.
 (Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA, 2007).



Hyoson Kiryaku.
 Drifting Toward the Southeast: The Story of Five Japanese Castaways.
 (Spinner, New Bedford, MA, 2003).



Ernest Satow.
 A Diplomat in Japan.
 (Seeley Service, London, 1921).



Ronald Toby.
 State and Diplomacy in Early Modern Japan: Asia in the Development of the Tokugawa Bakufu.
 (Princeton University Press,Princeton, NJ, 1984).



James White. State building and modernization: The Meiji Restoration.Pp. 499–559, in Crisis,
 Choice and Change: Historical Studies of Political Development
 , ed. G.A. Almond, S.C. Flanagan, and R.J. Mundt. (Little,Brown, Boston, 1973).



#### 第四章 全民的智利


Patricio Aylwin Azócar.
 El Reencuentro de los Demócratas: Del Golpe al Triunfo del No.
 (Ediciones Grupo Zeta, Santiago, 1998).



Edgardo Boeninger.
 Democracia en Chile: Lecciones para la Gobernabilidad
 . (Editorial Andres Bello, Santiago, 1997).



Erica Chenoweth and Maria Stephan.
 Why Civil Resistance Works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict.
 (Columbia University Press, New York, 2011).



Simon Collier and William Sater.
 A History of Chile, 1808–1994.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996).



Pamela Constable and Arturo Valenzuela.
 A Nation of Enemies: Chile under Pinochet.
 (Norton, New York, 1991).



Sebastian Edwards.
 Left Behind: Latin America and the False Promise of Populism.
 (University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 2010).



Carlos Huneeus.
 El Régimen de Pinochet.
 (Editorial Sudamericana Chilena, Santiago, 2000).



Peter Kronbluh.
 The Pinochet File: A Declassified Dossier on Atrocity and Accountability.
 (New Press, New York, 2013).



Thomas Skidmore, Peter Smith, and James Green. Chapter 10. Chile:Repression and democracy. Pp. 268–295, in
 Modern Latin America
 , 8th ed.(Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2014).



Arturo Valenzuela. Chile. Pp. 1–133, in
 The Breakdown of Democratic Regimes,
 ed. Juan Linz and Alfred Stepan. (Johns Hopkins University Press,Baltimore, 1978).



Stefan de Vylder.
 Allende' s Chile: The Political Economy of the Rise and Fall of the Unidad Popular.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,1976).



Edwin Williamson. Chapter 4. Chile: Democracy, revolution and dictatorship. Pp. 485– 510, in
 The Penguin History of Latin America,
 rev. ed.(Penguin, London, 2009).



#### 第五章 印度尼西亚，年轻国家的崛起


Benedict Anderson.
 Java in a Time of Revolution.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1972).



Edward Aspinall.
 Opposing Suharto: Compromise, Resistance, and Regime Change in Indonesia.
 (Stanford University Press, Stanford, CA,2005).



Harold Crouch.
 The Army and Politics in Indonesia
 , rev. ed. (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1988).



Harold Crouch.
 Political Reform in Indonesia after Soeharto.
 (Instituteof Southeast Asia Studies, Singapore, 2010).



R.E. Elson.
 Suharto: A Political Biography.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2001).



R.E. Elson.
 The Idea of Indonesia: A History.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2008).



Herbert Feith.
 The Decline of Constitutional Democracy in Indonesia.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1962).



George Kahin.
 Nationalism and Revolution in Indonesia.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1970).



George Kahin and Audrey Kahin.
 Subversion as Foreign Policy: The Secret Eisenhower and Dulles Debacle in Indonesia.
 (New Press, New York,1995).



J.D. Legge. Sukarno:
 A Political Biography.
 3rd ed. (Archipelago Press,Singapore, 2003).



Daniel Lev.
 The Transition to Guided Democracy: Indonesian Politics 1957– 59.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1966).



Katharine McGregor.
 History in Uniform: Military Ideology and the Construction of Indonesia' s Past.
 (NUS Press, Singapore, 2007).



Joshua Oppenheimer.
 The Act of Killing.
 (2012). [Documentary film].



Joshua Oppenheimer.
 The Look of Silence.
 (2014). [Documentary film].



Elizabeth Pisani.
 Indonesia etc.: Exploring the Improbable Nation.
 (Norton, New York, 2014).



M.C. Ricklefs.
 A History of Modern Indonesia.
 (Macmillan Education,London, 1981).



Geoffrey Robinson.
 The Dark Side of Paradise: Political Violence in Bali.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1995).



Geoffrey Robinson.
 If You Leave Us Here, We Will Die: How Genocide Was Stopped in East Timor.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2010).



Geoffrey Robinson.
 The Killing Season: A History of the Indonesian Massacres, 1965–66.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2018).



John Roosa.
 Pretext for Mass Murder: The September 30th Movement and Suharto' s Coup d' État in Indonesia.
 (University of Wisconsin Press,Madison, 2006).



J. Sidel. Riots,
 Pogroms, Jihad: Religious Violence in Indonesia.
 (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 2006).



Bradley Simpson.
 Economists with Guns: Authoritarian Development and U.S.– Indonesian Relations
 , 1960–1968. (Stanford University Press,Stanford, CA, 2008).



#### 第六章 重建德意志


Neal Bascomb.
 Hunting Eichmann.
 (Mariner, Boston, 2010).



Jillian Becker.
 Hitler' s Children: The Story of the Baader- Meinhof Terrorist Gang,
 3rd ed. (Pickwick, London, 1989).



Gordon Craig.
 The Germans.
 (Putnam, New York, 1982).



Norbert Frei.
 1968: Jugendrevolte und Globaler Protest.
 (Deutscher Taschenbuch Verlag, München, 2008).



Ulrich Herbert, ed.
 Wandlungsprozesse in Westdeutschland.
 (Wallstein,Göttingen, 2002).



Ulrich Herbert.
 Geschichte Deutschlands im 20. Jahrhundert.
 (C.H.Beck, München, 2014).



Michael Hughes.
 Shouldering the Burden of Defeat: West Germany and the Reconstruction of Social Justice.
 (University of North Carolina Press,Chapel Hill, 1999).



Peter Merseburger.
 Willy Brandt 1913–1992: Visionär und Realist.
 (Deutsche Verlags, Stuttgart, 2002).



Hans-Joachim Noack. Willy Brandt: Ein Leben, ein Jahrhundert.(Rowohlt, Berlin, 2013).



Andreas Rödder.
 Die Bundesrepublik Deutschland 1969–1990.
 (Oldenbourg, München, 2004).



Axel Schildt.
 Die Sozialgeschichte der Bundesrepublik Deutschland bis
 1989/90. (Oldenbourg, München, 2007).



Hanna Schissler, ed.
 The Miracle Years.
 (Princeton University Press,Princeton, NJ, 2001).



Gregor Schöllgen.
 Willy Brandt: Die Biographie.
 (Propyläen, Berlin,2001).



Edith Sheffer.
 Burned Bridge: How East and West Germans Made the Iron Curtain.
 (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2011).



Nathan Stoltzfus and Henry Friedlander, eds.
 Nazi Crimes and the Law.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2008).



Nikolaus Wachsmann.
 KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps.
 (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, New York, 2015).



Hans- Ulrich Wehler.
 Deutsche Gesellschaftsgeschichte,
 vol. 5:Bundesrepublik und DDR 1949–1990. (C.H. Beck, München, 2008).



Harald Welzer, Sabine Moller, and Karoline Tschuggnall.
 Opa war kein Nazi: Nationalsozialismus und Holocaust im Familiengedächtnis.
 (Fischer,Frankfurt, 2002).



Irmtrud Wojak.
 Fritz Bauer 1903–1968.
 (C.H. Beck, München, 2011).



Alexei Yurchak.
 Everything Was Forever, Until It Was No More: The Last Soviet Generation.
 (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2006).



#### 第七章 澳大利亚：我们是谁


Peter Brune.
 A Bastard of a Place: The Australians in Papua.
 (Allen &Unwin, Crows Nest, Australia, 2003).



Anthony Burke.
 Fear of Security: Australia' s Invasion Anxiety.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2001).



James Curran and Stuart Ward.
 The Unknown Nation: Australia after Empire.
 (Melbourne University Press, Carlton South, Australia, 2010).



Peter Edwards.
 Crises and Commitments: The Politics and Diplomacy of Australia' s Involvement in Southeast Asian Conflicts 1948–1965.
 (Allen &Unwin, North Sydney, Australia, 1992).



Marilyn Lake. British world or new world?
 History Australia
 10, no. 3:36– 50 (2013).



Stuart Macintyre.
 A Concise History of Australia
 , 4th ed. (Cambridge University Press, Port Melbourne, Australia, 2016).



Neville Meaney. The end of “white Australia” and Australia's changing perceptions of Asia, 1945–1990.
 Australian Journal of International Affairs
 49, no. 2: 171–189 (1995).



Neville Meaney. Britishness and Australia: Some reflections.
 Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History
 31, no. 2: 121– 135 (2003).



Mark Peel and Christina Twomey.
 A History of Australia.
 (Palgrave Macmillan, Houndmills, UK, 2011).



Deryck Schreuder and Stuart Ward, ed.
 Australia's Empire.
 (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2008).



Gwenda Tavan. The dismantling of the White Australia policy: Elite conspiracy or will of the Australian people?
 Australian Journal of Political Science
 39, no. 1: 109–125 (2004).



David Walker.
 Anxious Nation: Australia and the Rise of Asia 1850–
 1939.
 (University of Queensland Press, St. Lucia, Australia, 1999).



Stuart Ward.
 Australia and the British Embrace: The Demise of the Imperial Ideal.
 (Melbourne University Press, Carlton South, Australia, 2001).



Frank Welsh.
 Australia: A New History of the Great Southern Land.
 (Overlook, New York, 2004).



#### 第八章 日本：前路何方


W.G. Beasley.
 The Japanese Experience: A Short History of Japan.
 (University of California Press, Berkeley, 1999).



Ian Buruma.
 The Wages of Guilt: Memories of War in Germany and Japan.
 (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, New York, 1994).



John Dower.
 Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War Two.
 (Norton, New York, 1999).



Eri Hotta.
 Japan 1941: Countdown to Infamy.
 (Knopf, New York, 2013).



McKinsey Global Institute.
 The Future of Japan: Reigniting Productivity and Growth.
 (McKinsey, Tokyo, 2015).



David Pilling.
 Bending Adversity: Japan and the Art of Survival.
 (Penguin, London, 2014).



Frances McCall Rosenblugh, ed.
 The Political Economy of Japan 's Low Fertility.
 (Stanford University Press, Stanford, CA, 2007).



Sven Steinmo.
 The Evolution of Modern States: Sweden, Japan, and the United States.
 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2010).



N.O. Tsuia and L.S. Bumpass, eds.
 Marriage, Work, and Family Life in Comparative Perspective: Japan, South Korea, and the United States.
 (University of Hawaii Press, Honolulu, 2004).



Lee Kuan Yew.
 From Third World to First: The Singapore Story: 1964–
 2000.
 (Harper Collins, New York, 2000).



#### 第九章和第十章 美国的未来


Larry Bartels.
 Unequal Democracy: The Political Economy of the New Gilded Age
 , 2nd ed. (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2016).



Ari Berman.
 The Modern Struggle for Voting Rights in America.
 (Farrar,Straus and Giroux, New York, 2015).



Joseph Califano, Jr.
 Our Damaged Democracy: We the People Must Act.
 (Touchstone, New York, 2018).



Tim Flannery.
 The Eternal Frontier: An Ecological History of North America and Its Peoples.
 (Text, Melbourne, 2001).



Howard Friedman.
 The Measure of a Nation: How to Regain America's Competitive Edge and Boost Our Global Standing.
 (Prometheus, New York,2012).



Al Gore.
 The Assault on Reason.
 (Penguin, New York, 2017).



Steven Hill.
 Fixing Elections: The Failure of America 's Winner Take All Politics.
 (Routledge, New York, 2002).



Robert Kaplan.
 Earning the Rockies: How Geography Shapes America
 's Role in the World.
 (Random House, New York, 2017).



Jill Lepore.
 These Truths: A History of the United States.
 (Norton, New York, 2018).



Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt.
 How Democracies Die: What History Reveals about Our Future.
 (Crown, New York, 2018).



Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein.
 It's Even Worse than It Looks:
 How the American Constitution System Collided with the New Politics of Extremists.
 (Basic Books, New York, 2012).



Chris Matthews.
 Tip and the Gipper: When Politics Worked.
 (Simon &Schuster, New York, 2013).



Yascha Mounk.
 The People vs. Democracy: Why Our Freedom Is in Danger and How to Save It.
 (Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA,2018).



Robert Putnam.
 Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community.
 (Simon & Schuster, New York, 2000).



Joseph Stiglitz.
 The Price of Inequality: How Today's Divided Society Endangers Our Future.
 (Norton, New York, 2012).



Sherry Turkle.
 Reclaiming Conversation: The Power of Talk in a Digital Age.
 (Penguin, New York, 2015).



#### 第十一章 世界将去往何处


Scott Barrett.
 Environment and Statecraft: The Strategy of Environmental Treaty- making.
 (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2005).



Scott Barrett.
 Why Cooperate? The Incentive to Supply Global Public Goods.
 (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2007).



Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, eds.
 Global Catastrophic Risks.
 (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2011).



Jared Diamond.
 Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed.
 (Viking Penguin, New York, 2005).



Tim Flannery.
 Atmosphere of Hope: Searching for Solutions to the Climate Crisis.
 (Atlantic Monthly Press, New York, 2015).



Clive Hamilton.
 Earthmasters: The Dawn of the Age of Climate Engineering.
 (Yale University Press, New Haven, CT, 2013).



Michael T. Klare.
 The Race for What's Left: The Global Scramble for the World 's Last Resources.
 (Metropolitan Books, New York, 2012).



Fred Pearce.
 Confessions of an Eco-sinner: Tracking Down the Sources of My Stuff.
 (Beacon Press, Boston, 2008).



William Perry.
 My Journey at the Nuclear Brink.
 (Stanford University Press, Stanford, CA, 2015).



Laurence Smith. T
 he World in 2050: Four Forces Facing Civilization's Northern Future.
 (Dutton Penguin Group, New York, 2010).



Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett.
 The Spirit Level: Why More Equal Societies Almost Always Do Better.
 (Allen Lane, London, 2009).



#### 结语 借鉴、思考与展望


Thomas Carlyle.
 On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and the Hero in History.
 (James Fraser, London, 1841).



Jared Diamond and James Robinson, eds.
 Natural Experiments of History.
 (Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA, 2010).



Geert Hofstede.
 Culture's Consequences: International Differences in Work-Related Values.
 (Sage, Beverly Hills, 1980).



Geert Hofstede, Gert Jan Hofstede, and Michael Minkov.
 Cultures and Organizations: Software of the Mind.
 (McGraw Hill, New York, 2010).



Ronald Inglehart.
 Modernization and Postmodernization: Cultural,
 Economic, and Political Change in 43 Societies.
 (Princeton University Press,Princeton, NJ, 1997).



Benjamin Jones and Benjamin Olken. Do leaders matter? National leadership and growth since World War II.
 Quarterly Journal of Economics
 120, no. 3: 835– 864 (2005).



Benjamin Jones and Benjamin Olken. Hit or miss? The effect of assassinations on institutions and war.
 American Economic Journal:
 Macroeconomics
 1/2: 55– 87 (2009).



Michael Minkov.
 What Makes Us Different and Similar: A New Interpretation of the World Values Survey and Other Cross-Cultural Data.
 (Klasika I Stil, Sofia, Bulgaria, 2007).



Thucydides.
 The Peloponnesian War.
 Steven Lattimore, translator.(Hackett, Indianapolis, IN, 1988).



Leo Tolstoy.
 War and Peace.
 Ann Dunnigan, translator. (New American Library, New York, 1968).



备案号:YX01GbaaDpGO4NABM

