## 41.参考资料
| 参考资料 |
========


#### 第一章


Marcus E. Raichle & Debra A. Gusnard，“Appraising the brain’s energy budget，” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 99(16)（2002）：10237–10239.



Karl Friston，“The history of the future of the Bayesian brain，” NeuroImage,62(2)（Aug.2012）：1230–1233.



Leon Festinger and James M. Carlsmith，“Cognitive consequences of forced compliance，” The journal of abnormal and social psychology，58(2)（1959）：203.



Mauro Manassi & David Whitney，“Illusion of visual stability through active perceptual serial dependence，” Science Advances, 8(2)（2022）：eabk2480.



Eleanor A. Maguire，David G. Gadian，Ingrid S. Johnsrude，Catriona D. Good，John Ashburner，Richard S. J. Frackowiak and Christopher D.Frith，“Navigation-related structural change in the hippocampi of taxi drivers，” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 97(8)（2000）：4398–4403.



Robert C. Wilson，Amitai Shenhav，Mark Straccia and Jonathan D. Cohen，“The Eighty Five Percent Rule for optimal learning，” Nature Communications, 10(1)（2019）：4646.



Kent C. Berridge，Isabel L. Venier and Terry E. Robinson，“Taste reactivity analysis of 6-hydroxydopamine induced aphagia: Implications for arousal and anhedonia hypotheses of dopamine function，” Behavioral Neuroscience, 103(1)（1989）：36–45.



Kent C. Berridge and Terry E. Robinson，“Liking, wanting, and the incentive sensitization theory of addiction，” American Psychologist, 71(8)（2016）：670–679.



J. D. Salamone，M. S. Cousins and S. Bucher，“Anhedonia or anergia? Effects of haloperidol and nucleus accumbens dopamine depletion on instrumental response selection in a T maze cost/benefit procedure，” Behavioural Brain Research, 65(2)（1994）：221–229.



#### 第二章


Rachael E. Jack，Oliver G.B. Garrod and Philippe G. Schyns，“Dynamic Facial Expressions of Emotion Transmit an Evolving Hierarchy of Signals over Time，” Current Biology, 24(2)（2014）：187–192.



Lisa Feldman Barrett，Seven And A Half Lessons About The Brain（Mariner Books，2020）.



Tim Dalgleish，“The emotional brain，” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 5(7)（2004）：583–589.



Juyoen Hur，Jason F. Smith，Kathryn A. DeYoung，Allegra S. Anderson，Jinyi Kuang，Hyung Cho Kim，Rachael M. Tillman，Manuel Kuhn，Andrew S. Fox and Alexander J. Shackman，“Anxiety and the Neurobiology of Temporally Uncertain Threat Anticipation，” The Journal of Neuroscience, 40(41)（2020）：7949–7964.



TD Borkovec，Holly Hazlett-Stevens and ML Diaz，“The role of positive beliefs about worry in generalized anxiety disorder and its treatment，” Clinical Psychology & Psychotherapy: An International Journal of Theory & Practice, 6(2)（1999）, 126–138.



Jessica O’Loughlin，Francesco Casanova，Samuel E. Jones，Saskia P.Hagenaars，Robin N. Beaumont，Rachel M. Freathy，Edward R. Watkins，Céline Vetter，Martin K. Rutter，Sean W. Cain，Andrew J. K. Phillips，Daniel P. Windred，Andrew R. Wood，Michael N. Weedon and Jessica Tyrrell，“Using Mendelian Randomisation methods to understand whether diurnal preference is causally related to mental health，” Molecular Psychiatry（2021）.



#### 第三章


Evan C. Carter and Michael E. McCullough，“Is ego depletion too incredible?Evidence for the overestimation of the depletion effect，” Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 36(6)（2013）：683–684.



Evan C. Carter and Michael E. McCullough，“Publication bias and the limited strength model of self control: Has the evidence for ego depletion been overestimated，” Frontiers in Psychology, 5（2014）



Evan C. Carter，Lilly M. Kofler，Daniel E. Forster and Michael E.McCullough，“A series of meta analytic tests of the depletion effect: Self control does not seem to rely on a limited resource，” Journal of Experimental Psychology:General, 144(4)（2015）：796–815.



Matthew A. Sanders，Steve D. Shirk，Chris J. Burgin and Leonard L. Martin，“The Gargle Effect: Rinsing the Mouth With Glucose Enhances Self Control，” Psychological Science, 23(12)（2012）：1470–1472.



M. S. Hagger，et al.，“A Multilab Preregistered Replication of the Ego Depletion Effect，” Perspectives on Psychological Science, 11(4)（2016）：546–573.



Veronika Job，Carol S. Dweck and Gregory M. Walton，“Ego Depletion — Is It All in Your Head?: Implicit Theories About Willpower Affect Self Regulation，” Psychological Science, 21(11)（2010）：1686–1693.



Tyler W. Watts，Greg J. Duncan and Haonan Quan，“Revisiting the Marshmallow Test: A Conceptual Replication Investigating Links Between Early Delay of Gratification and Later Outcomes，” Psychological Science, 29(7)（2018）：1159–1177.



#### 第四章


M. A. Killingsworth and D. T. Gilbert，“A Wandering Mind Is an Unhappy Mind，” Science, 330(6006)（2010）：932–932.



Michael S. Franklin，Michael D. Mrazek，Craig L. Anderson，Jonathan Smallwood，Alan Kingstone and Jonathan W. Schooler，“The silver lining of a mind in the clouds: Interesting musings are associated with positive mood while mind wandering，” Frontiers in Psychology, 4（2013）.



#### 第六章


Yarrow Dunham，Andrew Scott Baron and Susan Carey，“Consequences of “minimal” group affiliations in children，” Child Development, 82(3)（2011）：793–811.



Charles G. Lord，Lee Ross and Mark R. Lepper，“Biased assimilation and attitude polarization: The effects of prior theories on subsequently considered evidence，” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 37(11)（1979）：2098–2109.



#### 第七章


Allen Ding Tian，Juliana Schroeder，Gerald Häubl，Jane L. Risen，Michael I. Norton and Francesca Gino，“Enacting rituals to improve self control，” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 114(6)（2018）：851–876.



Emma Threadgold，John E. Marsh，Neil McLatchie and Linden J. Ball，“Background music stints creativity: Evidence from compound remote associate tasks，” Applied Cognitive Psychology, 33(5)（2019）：873–888.



备案号:YXX1zv3r8Z1cOYwXQy4Sp5eG


###### 2022-10-10 08:12
