## 14.参考书目
*1941* *god. Dokumenty*  [The Year 1941 . Documents] , ed. A. N. Iakovlev, V. P. Naumov et al.,2 vols., Moscow,1998.    

  Abendroth, Hans-Henning, 『Deutschlands Rolle im Spanischen Bü rgerkrieg』, in Manfred Funke (ed.), *Hitler, Deutschland und die Ma Au*  *ß* *enpolitik des Dritten Reichs*  , Dü sseldorf,1978.    

*Adolf Hitler. Monologe im F*  *üchte. Materialien zur F*  *ü* *hrerhauptquartier*  , ed. Werner Jochmann, Hamburg,1980.    

  Aigner, Dietrich, 『Hitler und die Weltherrschaft』, in Wolfgang Michalka (ed.), *Nationalsozialistische Au*  *ß* *enpolitik*  , Darmstadt,1978.    

  Akira, Hara, 『Japan: Guns before Rice』, in Mark Harrison (ed.),*The Economics of World War II. Six Great Powers in International Comparison*  , Cambridge,1998.    

*Akten der Reichskanzlei. Die Regierung Hitler*  , ed. Karl-Heinz Minuth, vol.1 , Boppard am Rhein,1983.    

  Aldrich, Richard J.,*Intelligence and the War against Japan. Britain, America and the Politics of Secret Service*  , Cambridge,2000.    

  Allison, Graham T.,*The Essence of Decision. Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis*  , Boston,1971.    

  Alsop, Joseph, and Kintner, Robert,*American White Paper. The Story of American Diplomacy and the Second World War*  , London,1940.    

 Aly, Götz, *『Endlösung』. Völkerverschiebung und der Mord an den europ*  *ä* *ischen Juden*  , Frankfurt am Main,1995.    

  Aquarone, Alberto, 『Public Opinion in Italy before the Outbreak of World War II』, in Roland Sarti (ed.),*The Ax Within. Italian Fascism in Action*  , New York,1974.    

  Assmann, Kurt,*Deutsche Schicksalsjahre*  , Wiesbaden,1950.    

  Avon, Earl of,*The Eden Memoirs. The Reckoning*  , London,1965.    

  Azzi, Stephen Corrado, 『The Historiography of Fascist Foreign Policy』,*Historical Journal*  ,36 (1993).    

  Bach, Maurizio, *Die charismatischen F*  *ü* *hrerdiktaturen. Drittes Reich und italienischer Faschismus im Vergleich ihrer Herrschaftsstrukturen*  , Baden-Baden,1990.    

  Badger, Tony, *The New Deal. The Depression Years,*  *1933—40*  , London,1989.    

  Badoglio, Pietro,*Italy in the Second World War. Memories and Documents*  , London/New York/Toronto, 1948.    

  Bailey, Thomas A., and Ryan, Paul B.,*Hitler vs. Roosevelt. The Undeclared Naval War*  , New York,1979.    

  Barber, John, 『The Moscow Crisis of October1941 』, in Julian Cooper, Maureen Perrie and E. A. Rees (eds.), *Soviet History,*  *1917—53*  .*Essays in Honour of R. W. Davies*  , Basingstoke,1995.    

  Barkai, Avraham, *Vom Boykott zur 『Entjudung』. Der wirtschaftliche Existenzkampf der Juden im Dritten Reich*  *1933—1943*  , Frankfurt am Main,1988.    

  Barron, Gloria J.,*Leadership in Crisis. FDR and the Path to Intervention*  , Port Washington, NY/London, 1973.    

  Bartov, Omer, *The Eastern Front*  *1941—45*  .*German Troops and the Barbarisation of Warfare*  , New York,1986.    

  Bastianini, Giuseppe,*Volevo fermare Mussolini. Memorie di un diplomatico fascista*  , Milan,2005 ; orig. edn.,*Uomini, cose, fatti. Memorie di un ambasciatore*  , Milan,1959.    

  Beard, Charles A., *President Roosevelt and the Coming of War*  *1941*  .*A Study in Appearance and Realities*  , New Haven,1948.    

  Bell, P. M. H., *A Certain Eventuality*  *…* *Britain and the Fall of France*  , London,1974.    

  von Below, Nicolaus, *Als Hitlers Adjutant*  *1937—1945*, Mainz, 1980.    

  Bergamini, David,*Japan』s Imperial Conspiracy*  ,2 vols., New York,1971.    

  Beria, Sergo,*Beria. My Father*  , London,2000.    

  Besymenski, Lew,*Stalin und Hitler. Das Pokerspiel der Diktatoren*  , Berlin,2004.    

  Bialer, Seweryn (ed.),*Stalin and his Generals*  , London,1970.    

  Bix, Herbert P.,*Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan*  , London,2001.    

  Bloch, Michael,*Ribbentrop*  , paperback edn., London,1994.    

 Bloß , Hartmut, 『Deutsche Chinapolitik im Dritten Reich』, in Manfred Funke (ed.), *Hitler, Deutschland und die M*  *ächte. Materialien zur Au*  *ß* *enpolitik des Dritten Reichs*  , Dü sseldorf,1978.    

  Bloxham, Donald, 『The Armenian Genocide of1915—16 . Cumulative Radicalization and the Development of a Destruction Policy』,*Past and Present*  ,181 (2003).    

  Blum, John Morton,*From the Morgenthau Diaries*  , vol.2 : *Years of Urgency,*  *1938—1941*  , Boston,1965.    

  von Bock, Fedor, *The War Diary*  *1939—1945*  , ed. Klaus Gerbet, Atglen, Pa.,1996.    

  Bonwetsch, Bernd, 『Stalin, the Red Army, and the "Great Patriotic War」』, in Ian Kershaw and Moshe Lewin (eds.),*Stalinism and Nazism. Dictatorships in Comparison*  , Cambridge,1997.    

  Boroznjak, Alexander I., 『Ein russischer Historikerstreit? Zur sowjetischen und russischen Historiographieü ber den deutschen Angriff auf die Sowjetunion』, in Gerd R. Ueberschä r and Lev A. Bezymenskij (eds.), *Der deutsche Angriff auf die Sowjetunion*  *1941*  . *Die Kontroverse um die Pr*  *ä* *ventivkriegsthese*  , Darmstadt,1998.    

  Bosworth, R. J. B.,*Italy, the Least of the Great Powers. Italian Foreign Policy before the First World War*  , Cambridge,1979.    

 ——*The Italian Dictatorship. Problems and Perspectives in the Interpretation of Mussolini and Fascism*  , London,1998.    

 ——*Mussolini*  , London,2002.    

  Bottai, Giuseppe, *Diario*  *1935—1944*  , ed. Giordano Bruno Guerri, Milan,1982.    

  Boyd, Carl, *Hitler』s Japanese Confidant. General Oshima Hiroshi and MAGIC Intelligence,*  *1941—1945*  , Lawrence, Kan.,1992.    

  Braithwaite, Rodric, *Moscow*  *1941*  .*A City and its People at War*  , London,2006.    

  Brayard, Florent, *La 『solution finale de la question juive』. La technique, le temps et les cat*  *égories de la d*  *é* *cision*  , Paris,2005.    

  Brechten, Magnus, *『Madagaskar f*  *ür die Juden』. Antisemitische Idee und politische Praxis*  *1885—1945*  , Munich,1997.    

  Breitman, Richard,*The Architect of Genocide. Himmler and the Final Solution*  , London,1991.    

  Brogan, Hugh,*The Pelican History of the United States of America*  , Harmondsworth,1986.    

  Broszat, Martin,*Der Staat Hitlers*  , Munich,1969.    

 —— 『Soziale Motivation und Fü hrer-Bindung des Nationalsozialismus』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,18 (1970).    

  Browning, Christopher R.,*The Path to Genocide. Essays on Launching the Final Solution*  , Cambridge,1992.    

 —— with contributions by Jü rgen Matthä us, *The Origins of the Final Solution. The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September*  *1939—March 1942*  , Lincoln, Nebr.,2004.    

 Bü chler, Yehoshua, 『Kommandostab Reichsfü hrer-SS. Himmler』s Personal Murder Brigades in1941 』,*Holocaust and Genocide Studies*  ,1/1 (1986).    

  Burckhardt, Carl J., *Meine Danziger Mission*  *1937—1939*  , Munich,1962.    

  Burgdorff, Stephan, and Wiegrefe, Klaus (eds.), *Der Erste Weltkrieg. Die Urkatastrophe des*  *20*  .*Jahrhunderts*  , Munich,2004.    

  Burgwyn, H. James, *Italian Foreign Policy in the Interwar Period*  *1918—1940*  , Westport, Conn.,1997.    

  Burns, James MacGregor, *Roosevelt. The Soldier of Freedom*  *1940—1945*  , London,1971.    

  Butow, Robert J. C.,*Tojo and the Coming of the War*  , Princeton,1961.    

  Calder, Angus,*The People』s War*  , London,1969.    

  Calic, Edouard, *Unmasked. Two Confidential Interviews with Hitler in*  *1931*  , London,1971.    

  Carley, Michael Jabara,  *1939*  .*The Alliance that Never Was and the Coming of World War II*  , Chicago,1999.    

  Carr, William,*Poland to Pearl Harbor. The Making of the Second World War*  , London,1985.    

  Casey, Steven,*Cautious Crusade. Franklin D. Roosevelt, American Public Opinion, and the War against Nazi Germany*  , Oxford/ New York,2001.    

  『Cato』,*Guilty Men*  , London,1940.    

  Cecil, Robert, *Hitler』s Decision to Invade Russia*  *1941*  , London,1975.    

  Cervi, Mario, *The Hollow Legions. Mussolini』s Blunder in Greece,*  *1940—1941*  , London,1972.    

  Cesarani, David,*Eichmann. His Life and Crimes*  , London,2004.    

  Charmley, John,*Churchill: The End of Glory. A Political Biography*  , London,1993.    

  Chihiro, Hosoya, 『The Tripartite Pact,1939—1940 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *Deterrent Diplomacy. Japan, Germany, and the USSR*  *1935—1940*  , New York,1976.    

 —— 『Northern Defence』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

*Chips. The Diaries of Sir Henry Channon*  , ed. Robert Rhodes James, London,1967.    

  Choucri, Nazli, North, Robert C., and Yamakage, Susumu,*The Challenge of Japan before World War II and After*  , London/ New York,1992.    

  Churchill, Winston S.,*The Second World War*  , vol.1 :*The Gathering Storm*  , London,1948.    

 ——*The Second World War*  , vol.2 :*Their Finest Hour*  , London,1949.    

 ——*The Second World War*  , vol.3 :*The Grand Alliance*  , London,1950.    

 ——*The Second World War*  , vol.4 :*The Hinge of Fate*  , London,1951.    

 ——*Great War Speeches*  , paperback edn., London,1957.    

*Churchill and Roosevelt. The Complete Correspondence*  , ed. Warren F. Kimball,3 vols., Princeton,1984.    

*The Churchill War Papers*  , vol.2 : *Never Surrender, May*  *1940—December 1940*  , ed. Martin Gilbert, London,1995.    

*The Churchill War Papers*  , vol.3 : *The Ever-Widening War,*  *1941*  , ed. Martin Gilbert, London,2000.    

*Ciano』s Diary*  *1939—1943*  , ed. Malcolm Muggeridge, London,1947.    

*Ciano』s Diplomatic Papers*  , ed. Malcolm Muggeridge, London,1948.    

  Clarke, Peter, *Hope and Glory. Britain*  *1900—1990*  , London,1996.    

  Cole, Wayne S.,*Charles A. Lindbergh and the Battle against American Intervention in World War II*  , New York/London, 1974.    

  Colville, John, *The Fringes of Power. Downing Street Diaries*  *1939—1955*  , London,1985.    

  Connors, Lesley,*The Emperor』s Adviser. Saionji Kinmochi and Pre-War Japanese Politics*  , London,1987.    

  Corner, Paul, 『Everyday Fascism in the1930 s. Centre and Periphery in the Decline of Mussolini』s Dictatorship』,*Contemporary European History*  ,15 (2006).    

  Costello, John,*Ten Days that Saved the West*  , London,1991.    

  van Creveld, Martin, 『25 October 1940 . A Historical Puzzle』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,6 (1971).    

 ——*Hitler』s Strategy*  1940—1941 .*The Balkan Clue*  , Cambridge,1973.    

 —— 『Prelude to Disaster. The British Decision to Aid Greece,1940—41 』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,9 (1974).    

  Crowson, N. J., *Facing Fascism. The Conservative Party and the European Dictators*  *1935—40*  , London,1997.    

  Cull, Nicholas John,*Selling War. The British Propaganda Campaign against American 『Neutrality』 in World War II*  , New York/Oxford, 1995.    

  Dallek, Robert, *Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy,*  *1932—1945*  , New York,1979.    

  Davies, Joseph E.,*Mission to Moscow*  , New York,1941.    

  Davies, Norman,*Europe. A History*  , Oxford,1996.    

  Davies, R. W.,*Soviet History in the Yeltsin Era*  , London,1997.    

  Deakin, F. W.,*The Brutal Friendship. Mussolini, Hitler and the Fall of Italian Fascism*  , London,1962.    

  Dear, I. C. B., and Foot, M. R. D. (eds.),*The Oxford Companion to the Second World War*  , Oxford/ New York,1995.    

  Detwiler, Donald S.,*Hitler, Franco und Gibraltar. Die Frage des spanischen Eintritts in den Zweiten Weltkrieg*  , Wiesbaden,1962.    

*Das Deutsche Reich und der Zweiten Weltkrieg*  , ed. Militä rgeschichtliches Forschungsamt, vol.4 , Stuttgart,1983.    

 ——vol. 3 , ed. Militä rgeschichtliches Forschungsamt, Stuttgart,1984.    

  Deutscher, Isaac,*Stalin. A Political Biography*  , revised edn., London,1988.    

*The Diaries of Sir Alexander Cadogan*  *1938—1945*  , ed. David Dilks, London,1971.    

*Der Dienstkalender Heinrich Himmlers*  *1941/42*  , ed. Peter Witte et al., Hamburg,1999.    

*Das Diensttagebuch des deutschen Generalgouverneurs in Polen*  *1939—1945*  , ed. Werner Prä g and Wolfgang Jacobmeyer, Stuttgart,1975.    

  Dietrich, Otto,12*Jahre mit Hitler*  , Munich,1955.    

  Dilks, David, 『The Twilight War and the Fall of France. Chamberlain and Churchill in1940 』,*Transactions of the Royal Historical Society*  ,5 th series,28(1978).    

*Dimension des V*  *ölkermords. Die Zahl der j*  *ü* *dischen Opfer des Nationalsozialismus*  , ed. Wolfgang Benz, Munich,1991.    

*The Diplomatic Diaries of Oliver Harvey*  *1937—1940*  , ed. John Harvey, London,1970.    

  Divine, Robert A.,*The Reluctant Belligerent. American Entry into World War II*  , New York,1965.    

 ——*Roosevelt and World War II*  , Baltimore,1969.    

*I documenti diplomatici italiani*  ,9 th series,1939—1943, Rome, 1954—60.    

*Documents on German Foreign Policy,*  *1918—1945*  . *Series D (*  *1937—1945* *)*  , London,1957—66.    

  Domarus, Max (ed.), *Hitler. Reden und Proklamationen*  *1932—1945*  , Wiesbaden,1973.    

 Dö nitz, Karl,*Memoirs. Ten Years and Twenty Days*  , New York,1997.    

 Dü lffer, Jost, *Weimar, Hitler und die Marine. Reichspolitik und Flottenbau*  *1920—1939*, Dü sseldorf,1973.    

 —— 『Zum 「decision-making process」 in der deutschen Auß enpolitik1933—1939 』, in Manfred Funke (ed.), *Hitler, Deutschland und die M*  *ächte*, Dü sseldorf,1978.    

  Erickson, John, 『Threat Identification and Strategic Appraisal by the Soviet Union1930—1941 』, in E. R. May (ed.),*Knowing One』s Enemies. Intelligence Assessment before the Two World Wars*  , Princeton,1983.    

 ——*The Road to Stalingrad. Stalin』s War with Germany*  , vol.1 , paperback edn., London,1998.    

  Esnouf, Guy Nicholas, 『British Government War Aims and Attitudes towards a Negotiated Peace, September1939 to July 1940 』, unpublished Ph.D. thesis, King』s College London,1988.    

  Falin, Valentin,*Zweite Front. Die Interessenkonflikte in der Anti-Hitler-Koalition*  , Munich,1995.    

*FDR』s Fireside Chats*  , ed. Russell D. Buhite and David W. Levy, New York,1992.    

  Feiling, Keith,*The Life of Neville Chamberlain*  , London,1946.    

  Feis, Herbert,*The Road to Pearl Harbor. The Coming of the War between the United States and Japan*  , Princeton,1950.    

  Felice, Renzo de, *Mussolini l』alleato*  *1940—1945*, vol. 1, Turin, 1990.    

  Ferguson, Niall,*The War of the World. History』s Age of Hatred*  , London,2006.    

  Flannery, Harry W.,*Assignment to Berlin*  , London,1942.    

  Fleming, Gerald,*Hitler and the Final Solution*  , paperback edn., Berkeley/ Los Angeles,1994.    

  Flynn, John T.,*The Roosevelt Myth*  , New York,1956.    

*Foreign Relations of the United States. Diplomatic Papers*  *1938*, vol. 1 , Washington,1955.    

*Foreign Relations of the United States. Diplomatic Papers*  *1941*, vol. 4 :*The Far East*  , Washington,1956.    

*Foreign Relations of the United States. Japan*  *1931—41*, vol. 2 , Washington,1943.    

*For the President: Personal and Secret. Correspondence between Franklin D. Roosevelt and William C. Bullitt*  , ed. Orville H. Bullitt, London,1973.    

  Fox, John P., *Germany and the Far Eastern Crisis*  *1931—1938*  .*A Study in Diplomacy and Ideology*  , Oxford,1982.    

  Freidel, Frank,*Franklin D. Roosevelt. A Rendezvous with Destiny*  , Boston,1990.    

 Friedlä nder, Saul, *Prelude to Downfall. Hitler and the United States,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1967.    

 ——*Nazi Germany and the Jews. The Years of Persecution,*  *1933—39*  , London,1997.    

*Fuehrer Conferences on Naval Affairs*  *1939—1945*  , London,1990.    

  *『Führer-Erlasse』*  *1939—1945*  , ed. Martin Moll, Stuttgart,1997.    

  Gardiner, Juliet, *Wartime Britain*  *1939—1945*  , London,2004.    

  Gassert, Philipp, *Amerika im Dritten Reich. Ideologie, Propaganda und Volksmeinung*  *1933—1945*  , Stuttgart,1997.    

  Gay, Peter, 『In Deutschland zu Hause… Die Juden der Weimarer Zeit』, in Arnold Paucker (ed.), *Die Juden im Nationalsozialistischen Deutschland*  *1933—1943*, Tübingen, 1986.    

  Gellman, Irwin F.,*Secret Affairs. Franklin Roosevelt, Cordell Hull, and Sumner Welles*  , Baltimore/London, 1995.    

*Generalfeldmarschall Keitel: Verbrecher oder Offizier? Erinnerungen, Briefe, Dokumente des Chefs OKW*  , ed. Walter Görlitz, Göttingen, 1961.    

  Gerlach, Christian, 『Die Wannsee-Konferenz, das Schicksal der deutschen Judenund Hitlers politische Grundsatzentscheidung, alle Juden Europas zu ermordern』,*Werkstattgeschichte*  ,18 (1997).    

 ——*Kalkulierte Morde. Die deutsche Wirtschafts-und Vernichtungspolitik in Wei*  *ßrußland 1941 bis 1944*  , Hamburg,1999.    

  Getty, J. Arch, 『The Politics of Repression Revisited』, in J. Arch Getty and Roberta T. Manning (eds.),*Stalinist Terror. New Perspectives*  , Cambridge,1993.    

  Gibbs, N. H.,*Grand Strategy*  , vol.1 :*Rearmanent Policy*  , London,1976.    

  Gilbert, Martin,*Winston S. Churchill*  , vol.5: *1922—1939*  , London,1976.    

 ——*Winston S. Churchill*  *1939—1941*, vol. 6 :*Finest Hour*  , paperback edn., London,1983.    

  Glantz, David M.,*The Military Strategy of the Soviet Union. A History*  , London,1992.    

 —— 『The Red Army in1941 』, in David M. Glantz (ed.), *The Initial Period of War on the Eastern Front,*  *22 June—August 1941*  , London,1993.    

 ——*Stumbling Colossus. The Red Army on the Eve of World War*  , Lawrence, Kan.,1998.    

 ——*Barbarossa. Hitler』s Invasion of Russia*  *1941*  , Stroud,2001 . Goldhagen, Daniel Jonah,*Hitler』s Willians and the Holocaust*  , New York,1996.    

  Gordon, Andrew,*A Modern History of Japan from Tokugawa Times to the Present*  , New York/Oxford, 2003.    

  Gorinov, Mikhail M., 『Muscovites』 Moods,22 June 1941 to May 1942 』, in W. Thurston and Bernd Bonwetsch (eds.),*The People』s War. Responses to World War II in the Soviet Union*  , Urbana/Chicago, 2000.    

  Gorodetsky, Gabriel,*Grand Delusion. Stalin and the German Invasion of Russia*  , New Haven/London, 1999.    

  Grew, Joseph C.,*Ten Years in Japan*  , New York,1944.    

  Gruchmann, Lothar, 『Die 「verpaß ten strategischen Chancen」 der Achsenmä chte im Mittelmeerraum1940/41 』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,18 (1970).    

 ——*Der Zweite Weltkrieg*  , Munich,4th edn., 1975.    

  Haffner, Sebastian, *Von Bismarck zu Hitler. Ein R*  *ü* *ckblick*  , paperback edn., Munich,1989.    

  von Hagen, Mark, 『Soviet Soldiers and Officers on the Eve of the German Invasion. Toward a Description of Social Psychology and Political Attitudes』, in Robert W. Thurston and Bernd Bonwetsch (eds.),*The People』s War. Responses to World War II in the Soviet Union*  , Urbana/Chicago, 2000.    

  Halder, Franz, *Kriegstagebuch. T*  *ägliche Aufzeichnungen des Chefs des Generalstabes des Heeres*  *1939—1942*, vol. 1 : *Vom Polenfeldzug bis zum Ende der Westoffensive (*  *14.8.1939—30.6.1940* *)*  , ed. Hans-Adolf Jacobsen, Stuttgart,1962.    

 ——*Kriegstagebuch. T*  *ägliche Aufzeichnungen des Chefs des Generalstabes des Heeres*  *1939—1942*, vol. 2 : *Von der geplanten Landung in England bis zum Beginn des Ostfeldzuges (*  *1.7.1940—21.6.1941* *)*  , ed. Hans-Adolf Jacobsen, Stuttgart,1963.    

 ——*Kriegstagebuch. T*  *ägliche Aufzeichnungen des Chefs des Generalstabes des Heeres*  *1939—1942*, vol. 3: *Der Rußlandfeldzug bis zum Marsch auf Stalingrad (*  *22.6.1941—24.9.1942* *)*  , ed. Hans-Adolf Jacobsen, Stuttgart,1964.    

*The Halder War Diary,*  *1939—1942*  , ed. and trans. Charles Burdick and Hans-Adolf Jacobsen, London,1988.    

  Hanfstaengl, Ernst,*Hitler. The Missing Years*  , paperback edn., New York,1994.    

  Harrison, Mark (ed.),*The Economics of World War II. Six Great Powers in International Comparison*  , Cambridge,1998.    

  Hauner, Milan,*Hitler. A Chronology of his Life and Time*  ,2 nd edn., Basingstoke/ New York,2005.    

*Heeresadjutant bei Hitler*  *1938—1943*  .*Aufzeichnungen des Majors Engel*  , ed. Hildegard von Kotze, Stuttgart,1974.    

  Heiber, Helmut, 『Der Generalplan Ost』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ür Zeitgeschichte,*  *6 (1958).*   

  Heinrichs, Waldo H., Jr.,*American Ambassador. Joseph C. Grew and the Development of the United States Diplomatic Tradition*  , Boston,1966.    

 ——*Threshold of War. Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Entry into World War II*  , New York/Oxford, 1988.    

 Hé nandez-Sandoica, Elena, and Moradiellos, Enrique, 『Spain and the Second World War,1939—1945 』, in Neville Wylie (ed.),*European Neutrals and Non-Belligerents during the Second World War*  , Cambridge,2002.    

  Herbert, Ulrich, 『「Generation der Sachlichkeit」. Die vö lkische Studentenbewegung der frü hen zwanziger Jahre in Deutschland』, in Werner Johe and Uwe Lohalm (eds.),*Zivilisation und Barbarei*  , Hamburg,1991.    

  Higgins, Patrick, 『The Political Beliefs of R. A. Butler』 (unpublished paper).   

  Hilberg, Raul, 『The Kommandostab Revisited』,*Yad Vashem Studies*  ,34 (2006).    

  Hildebrand, Klaus, *Vom Reich zum Weltreich. Hitler, NSDAP und koloniale Frage*  *1919—1945*  , Munich,1969.    

 ——*The Foreign Policy of the Third Reich*  , London,1973.    

 ——*Das vergangene Reich. Deutsche Au*  *ß* *enpolitik von Bismarck bis Hitler*  , Stuttgart,1995.    

  Hilger, Gustav, and Meyer, Alfred G., *The Incompatible Allies. A Memoir of German*  *–Soviet Relations*  *1918—1941*  , New York,1953.    

  Hill, Christopher, *Cabinet Decisions on Foreign Policy. The British Experience, October*  *1938—June 1941*  , Cambridge,1991.    

  Hillgruber, Andreas, 『Der Faktor Amerika in Hitlers Strategie1938—1941 』,*Aus Politik und Zeitgeschichte. Beilage zur Wochenzeitung 『Das Parlament』,*  11 May 1966 , reprinted in Wolfgang Michalka (ed.), *Nationalsozialistische Au*  *ß* *enpolitik*  , Darmstadt,1978.    

 ——*Hitlers Strategie. Politik und Kriegf*  *ührung 1940—1941*, 3 rd edn., Bonn,1993.    

  Hinsley, F. H.,*British Intelligence in the Second World War*  , London,1993.    

 —— 『British Intelligence and Barbarossa』, in John Erickson and David Dilks (eds.),*Barbarossa. The Axis and the Allies*  , Edinburgh,1994.    

  Hiroharu, Seki, 『The Manchurian Incident1931 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *Japan Erupts. The London Naval Conference and the Manchurian Incident*  *1928—1932*  , New York,1984.    

  Hitler, Adolf,*Mein Kampf*  ,876—880 th reprint, Munich,1943.    

 ——*Mein Kampf*  , trans. Ralph Mannheim, with an Introduction by D. C. Watt, paperback edn., London,1973.    

*Hitler: Reden, Schriften, Anordnungen. Februar*  *1925bis Januar*  *1933*  , ed. Institut fü r Zeitgeschichte,5 vols. in12 parts, Munich/London/New York/Paris, 1992—8.    

  『Hitlers Denkschrift zum Vierjahresplan1936 』, ed. Wilhelm Treue, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,3 (1955).    

*Hitlers politisches Testament. Die Bormann Diktate vom Februar und April*  *1945*  , Hamburg,1981.    

*Hitler』s Second Book. The Unpublished Sequel to Mein Kampf*  , ed. Gerhard L. Weinberg, New York,2003.    

*Hitlers Weisungen f*  *ür die Kriegf*  *ü* *hrung. Dokumente des Oberkommandos der Wehrmacht*  , ed. Walther Hubatsch, paperback edn., Munich,1965.    

 Hö hne, Heinz,*The Order of the Death』s Head. The Story of Hitler』s SS*  , London,1969.    

  Hosenfeld, Wilm, *『Ich versuche jeden zu retten』. Das Leben eines deutschen Offiziers in Briefen und Tageb*  *ü* *chern*  , ed. Thomas Vogel, Munich,2004.    

  Hull, Cordell,*The Memoirs of Cordell Hull*  ,2 vols., New York,1948.    

 Husson, É douard, *『Nous pouvons vivre sans les Juifs』: Novembre*  *1941*  . *Quand et comment ils d*  *écidè* *rent de la solution finale*  , Paris,2005.    

 Hü ttenberger, Peter, 『Nationalsozialistische Polykratie』,*Geschichte und Gesellschaft*  ,2 (1976).    

  Hyoe, Murakami, and Harper, Thomas J. (eds.),*Great Historical Figures of Japan*  , Tokyo,1978.    

  Ickes, Harold L.,*The Secret Diary of Harold L. Ickes*  , vol.3 : *The Lowering Clouds*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1955.    

  Ike, Nobutaka (ed.), *Japan』s Decision for War. Records of the*  *1941* *Policy Conferences*  , Stanford, Calif.,1967.    

  Ikuhiko, Hata, 『The Japanese-Soviet Confrontation,1935—1939 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *Deterrent Diplomacy. Japan, Germany, and the USSR*  *1935—1940*  , New York,1976.    

 —— 『The Army』s Move into Northern Indochina』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

 —— 『The Marco Polo Bridge Incident,1937 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The China Quagmire. Japan』s Expansion on the Asian Continent,*  *1933—1941*  , New York,1983.    

  Iriye, Akira,*Across the Pacific. An Inner History of American-East Asian Relations*  , New York,1967.    

 ——*Power and Culture. The Japanese-American War,*  *1941—1945*  , Cambridge, Mass.,1981.    

 ——*The Origins of the Second World War in Asia and the Pacific*  , London/ New York,1987.    

*The Ironside Diaries,*  *1937—1940*  , ed. Roderick Macleod and Denis Kelly, London,1962.    

  Irving, David,*Hitler』s War*  , London,1977.    

 ——*Churchill』s War*  , vol.1 :*The Struggle for Power*  , Bullsbrook, Australia,1987.    

  Ito, Takashi, Hirohashi, Tadamitsu, and Katashima, Norio (eds.),*The Secret Documents of Prime Minister Tojo: Records of the Words and Deeds of General Hideki Tojo*  [ in Japanese] , Tokyo, n.d.   

  Iz vospominanii upravliyushchego delami sovnarkoma SSSR Ya. E. Chadaev』[ 『From the Memoirs of the Head of Sovnarkom USSR– Yakov Ermolaevich Chadaev』] ,*Otechestvennaya Istoriya*  ,2 (2005).    

 Jä ckel, Eberhard,*Hitlers Weltanschauung. Entwurf einer Herrschaft*  , Tübingen, 1969.    

 ——*Hitler in History*  , Hanover/London, 1984.    

 —— 『From Barbarossa to Wannsee. The Role of Reinhard Heydrich』, unpublished essay.   

 —— and Kuhn, Axel (eds.), *Hitler. S*  *ämtliche Aufzeichnungen*  *1905—1924*  , Stuttgart,1980.    

  Jenkins, Roy,*Churchill*  , London,2001.    

  Jones, F. C., *Japan』s New Order in East Asia. Its Rise and Fall,*  *1937—45*  , Oxford,1954.    

  Jones, Thomas, *A Diary with Letters*  *1931—1950*  , London,1954.    

  Judt, Tony, *Postwar. A History of Europe since*  *1945*  , London,2005.    

  Jun, Tsunoda, 『The Navy』s Role in the Southern Strategy』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

  Kahn, David,*Hitler』s Spies. German Military Intelligence in World War II*  , New York,2000.    

  Kennedy, David M., *Freedom from Fear. The American People in Depression and War,*  *1929—1945*  , New York/Oxford, 1999.    

  Kershaw, Ian, 『Improvised Genocide? The Emergence of the 「Final Solution」 in the 「Warthegau」』,*Transactions of the Royal Historical Society*  ,6 th series,2 (1992).    

 —— *Hitler, 1889—1936*  .*Hubris*  , London,1998.    

 —— *Hitler, 1936—1945*  .*Nemesis*  , London,2000.    

 ——*The Nazi Dictatorship. Problems and Perspectives of Interpretation*  ,4 th edn., London,2000.    

 ——*Making Friends with Hitler. Lord Londonderry and Britain』s Road to War*  , London,2004.    

*Khrushchev Remembers*  , ed. Strobe Talbott, London,1971.    

  Kimball, Warren F., *The Most Unsordid Act. Lend-Lease*  *1939—1941*  , Baltimore,1969.    

 ——*The Juggler. Franklin Roosevelt as Wartime Statesman*  , Princeton,1991.    

 ——*Forged in War. Churchill, Roosevelt and the Second World War*  , London,1997.    

  Kipp, Jacob, 『Soviet War Planning』, in David M. Glantz (ed.), *The Initial Period of War on the Eastern Front,*  *22 June—August 1941*  , London,1993.    

  Klee, Karl, *Das Unternehmen 『Seel*  *ö* *we』. Die geplante deutsche Landung in England*  1940, Göttingen, 1958.    

 —— (ed.), *Dokumente zum Unternehmen 『Seel*  *ö* *we』. Die geplante deutsche Landung in England*  1940, Göttingen, 1959.    

  Knight, Jonathan, 『Churchill and the Approach to Mussolini and Hitler in May  *1940*  . A Note』,*British Journal of International Studies*  ,3 (1977).    

  Knox, MacGregor, 『Fascist Italy Assesses its Enemies,1935—1940 』, in Ernest R. May (ed.),*Knowing One』s Enemies. Intelligence Assessment before the Two World Wars*  , Princeton,1983.    

 ——*Mussolini Unleashed*  *1939—1941*  .*Politics and Strategy in Fascist Italy』s Last War*  , paperback edn.. Cambridge,1986.    

 ——*Common Destiny. Dictatorship, Foreign Policy, and War in Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany*  , Cambridge,2000.    

 ——*Hitler』s Italian Allies. Royal Armed Forces, Fascist Regime, and the War of*  *1940—1943*  , Cambridge,2000.    

  Koliopoulos, John S., *Greece and the British Connection*  *1935—1941*  , Oxford,1977.    

  Korb, Martin, 『Deutsche Reaktionen auf die Novemberpogrome im Spiegel amtlicher Berichte』, unpublished Magisterarbeit, Technische Universitä t Berlin,2004.    

  Krausnick, Helmut, 『Denkschrift Himmlersü ber die Behandlung der Fremdvö lkischen im Osten (Mai1940 )』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,5 (1957).    

 —— and Wilhelm, Hans-Heinrich, *Die Truppe des Weltanschauungskrieges. Die Einsatzgruppen der Sicherheitspolizei und des SD*  *1938—1942*  , Stuttgart,1981.    

  Krebs, Gerhard, 『Deutschland und Pearl Harbor』,*Historische Zeitschrift*  ,253(1991).    

*Kriegstagebuch des Oberkommandos der Wehrmacht (Wehrmachtf*  *ü* *hrungsstab)*  , ed. Percy Ernst Schramm,4 vols., Frankfurt am Main,1961—5.    

*Kriegstagebuch der Seekriegsleitung*  *1939—1945*  , ed. Werner Rahn and Gerhard Schreiber, Herford/Bonn, 1989.    

  Kube, Alfred, *Pour le m*  *érite und Hakenkreuz. Hermann G*  *ö* *ring im Dritten Reich*  , Munich,1986.    

  Kulka, Otto Dov, 『Richard Wagner und die Anfä nge des modernen Antisemitismus』,*Bulletin des Leo Baeck Instituts*  ,4 (1961).    

 —— 『Die deutsche Geschichtsschreibungü ber den Nationalsozialismus und die "Endlö sung」. Tendenzen und Entwicklungsphasen1924—1984 』,*Historische Zeitschrift*  ,240 (1985).    

 —— 『Critique of Judaism in European Thought. On the Historical Meaning of Modern Antisemitism』,*Jerusalem Quarterly*  ,52 (1989).    

 ——and Jä ckel, Eberhard (eds.), *Die Juden in den geheimen NS-Stimmungsberichten*  *1933—1945*, Dü sseldorf,2004.    

  Kuper, Leo,*Genocide. Its Political Use in the Twentieth Century*  , Harmondsworth,1981.    

  *Lagevorträge des Oberbefehlshabers der Kriegsmarine vor Hitler*  *1939—1945*  , ed. Gerhard Wagner, Munich,1972.    

  Langer, William L., and Gleason, S. Everett, *The Challenge to Isolation,*  *1937—1940*  , New York,1952.    

 ——*The Undeclared War,*  *1940—1941*  , New York,1953.    

  Larrabee, Eric,*Commander in Chief. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, his Lieutenants, and their War*  , London,1987.    

  Lash, Joseph P., *Roosevelt and Churchill*  *1939—1941*  .*The Partnership that Saved the West*  , New York,1976.    

  Lawlor, Sheila, 『Britain and the Russian Entry into the War』, in Richard Langhorne (ed.),*Diplomacy and Intelligence during the Second World War*  , Cambridge,1985.    

  Leach, Barry A., *German Strategy against Russia*  *1939—1941*  , Oxford,1973.    

  Lebra, Joyce C.,*Japan』s Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere in World War II. Selected Readings and Documents*  , Kuala Lumpur,1975.    

  Leigh, Michael, *Mobilizing Consent. Public Opinion and American Policy*  *1937—1947*  , Westport, Conn.,1976.    

  Lewin, Moshe,*The Making of the Soviet System. Essays in the Social History of Interwar Russia*  , New York,1985.    

 —— 『Bureaucracy and the Stalinist State』, in Ian Kershaw and Moshe Lewin (eds.),*Stalinism and Nazism. Dictatorships in Comparison*  , Cambridge,1997.    

 ——*The Soviet Century*  , London,2005.    

  Lewin, Ronald,*Ultra Goes to War. The Secret Story*  , paperback edn., London,2001.    

  Lewis, Jonathan, and Whitehead, Phillip,*Stalin. A Time for Judgement*  , London,1991.    

  Liulevicius, Vejas Gabriel,*War Land on the Eastern Front. Culture, National Identity and German Occupation in World War I*  , Cambridge,2000.    

  Longerich, Peter (ed.), *Die Ermordung der europ*  *äischen Juden. Eine umfassende Dokumentation des Holocaust*  *1941—1945*, Munich/Zurich, 1989.    

 ——*Politik der Vernichtung. Eine Gesamtdarstellung der nationalsozialistischen Judenverfolgung*  , Munich/Zurich, 1998.    

  Lukacs, John,*The Duel. Hitler vs. Churchill*  , Oxford,1992.    

 ——*Five Days in London. May*  *1940*  , paperback edn., New Haven/London, 2001.    

 —— *June 1941*  .*Hitler and Stalin*  , New Haven/London, 2006.    

  Lyttleton, Adrian,*The Seizure of Power*  , London,1973.    

  Mack Smith, Denis,*Mussolini as a Military Leader*  , Reading,1974.    

 ——*Mussolini』s Roman Empire*  , London/ New York,1976.    

 ——*Mussolini*  , paperback edn., London,1983.    

  Magenheimer, Heinz, *Hitler』s War. Germany』s Key Strategic Decisions*  *1940—1945*  , London,1998.    

*The 『MAGIC』 Background of Pearl Harbor*  ,8 vols., Washington,1977—8.    

  Maisky, Ivan,*Who Helped Hitler?*  , London,1964.    

  Mann, Michael,*The Dark Side of Democracy. Explaining Ethnic Cleansing*  , Cambridge,2005.    

  Marks, Frederick W., III,*Wind over Sand. The Diplomacy of Franklin Roosevelt*  , Athens, Ga.,1988.    

  Martin, Bernd, 『Das "Dritte Reich」 und die "Friedens」-Frage im Zweiten Weltkrieg』, in Wolfgang Michalka (ed.), *Nationalsozialistische Au*  *ß* *enpolitik*  , Darmstadt,1978.    

  Maser, Werner (ed.),*Hitlers Briefe und Notizen. Sein Weltbild in handschrift-lichen Dokumenten*  , Dü sseldorf,1973.    

  Mason, Timothy W.,*Nazism, Fascism and the Working Class*  , Cambridge,1995.    

*Matsuoka Yosuke. The Man and his Life*  , Tokyo,1974 [ in Japanese].    

 Matthaüs, Jü rgen, 『Operation Barbarossa and the Onset of the Holocaust, June–December 1941 』, in Christopher Browning, *The Origins of the Final Solution. The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September*  *1939—March 1942*  , Lincoln, Nebr.,2004.    

  Mawdsley, Evan, *The Stalin Years. The Soviet Union,*  *1929—1953*  , Manchester,1998.    

 —— 『Crossing the Rubicon. Soviet Plans for Offensive War in1940—1941 』,*International History Review*  ,25 (2003).    

  Mazower, Mark, *Inside Hitler』s Greece. The Experience of Occupation,*  *1941—44*  , New Haven/London, 1993.    

  Medvedev, Roy,*On Stalin and Stalinism*  , Oxford,1979.    

 ——*All Stalin』s Men*  , Oxford,1983.    

 —— and Medvedev, Zhores,*The Unknown Stalin. His Life, Death, and Legacy*  , Woodstock/ New York,2004.    

  Meinecke, Friedrich,*Die deutsche Katastrophe*  , Wiesbaden,1946.    

*Mein Tagebuch. Geschichten vom*  *Überleben 1939—1947*  , ed. Heinrich Breloer, Cologne,1984.    

*Meldungen aus dem Reich. Auswahl aus den geheimen Lageberichten des Sicherheitsdienstes der SS*  *1939—1944*  , ed. Heinz Boberach, Neuwied/Berlin, 1965.    

  Melograni, Piero, 『The Cult of the Duce in Mussolini』s Italy』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,11 (1976).    

*The Memoirs of General the Lord Ismay*  , London,1960.    

  Merridale, Catherine, *Ivan』s War. The Red Army*  *1939—1945*  , London,2005.    

  Michalka, Wolfgang, 『Vom Antikominternpakt zum euro-asiatischen Kontinentalblock. Ribbentrops Alternativkonzeption zu Hitlers auß enpolitischen "Programm」』, in Wolfgang Michalka (ed.), *Nationalsozialistische Au*  *ß* *enpolitik*  , Darmstadt,1978.    

 ——*Ribbentrop und die deutsche Weltpolitik*  *1933—1940*  , Munich,1980.    

 —— 『From the Anti-Comintern Pact to the Euro-Asiatic Bloc. Ribbentrop』s Alternative Concept of Hitler』s Foreign Policy Programme』, in H. W. Koch (ed.),*Aspects of the Third Reich*  , London,1985.    

  Mikoyan, Anastas Ivanovich,*Tak bylo*  , Moscow,1999.    

  Mikoyan, Stepan A., 『Barbarossa and the Soviet Leadership』, in John Erickson and David Dilks (eds.),*Barbarossa. The Axis and the Allies*  , Edinburgh,1994.    

*Molotov Remembers: Inside Kremlin Politics. Conversations with Felix Chuev*  , Chicago,1993.    

  Montefiore, Simon Sebag,*Stalin. The Court of the Red Tsar*  , London,2003.    

  Morley, James William (ed.), *Deterrent Diplomacy. Japan, Germany, and the USSR*  *1935—1940*  , New York,1976.    

 —— (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

 —— (ed.), *The China Quagmire. Japan』s Expansion on the Asian Continent,*  *1933—1941*  , New York,1983.    

 — (ed.), *Japan Erupts. The London Naval Conference and the Manchurian Incident*  *1928—1932*  , New York,1984.    

 —— (ed.), *The Final Confrontation. Japan』s Negotiations with the United States,*  *1941*  , Columbia, NY,1994.    

  Moseley, Ray,*Mussolini』s Shadow. The Double Life of Count Galeazzo Ciano*  , New Haven/London, 1999.    

  Mosse, George,*The Crisis of German Ideology. Intellectual Origins of the Third Reich*  , London,1966.    

  Mowat, Charles Loch, *Britain between the Wars,*  *1918—1940*  , London,1956.    

 Mü ller, Klaus-Jü rgen, *Das Heer und Hitler. Armee und nationalsozialistisches Regime*  *1933—1940*  , Stuttgart,1969.    

  Murphy, David E.,*What Stalin Knew. The Enigma of Barbarossa*  , New Haven/London, 2005.    

  Musial, Bogdan,*Deutsche Zivilverwaltung und Judenverfolgung im Generalgouvernement*  , Wiesbaden,1999.    

  Naimark, Norman M.,*Fires of Hatred. Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe*  , Cambridge, Mass./London, 2001.    

*Nazi Conspiracy and Aggression*  , United States Government,11 vols., Washington,1946—8.    

  *Nazi–Soviet Relations*  *1939—1941*  , ed. Raymond James Sontag and James Stuart Beddie, New York,1948.    

  Nicolson, Harold, *Diaries and Letters*  *1930—1964*  , ed. Stanley Olson, New York,1980.    

  Nipperdey, Thomas, *Deutsche Geschichte*  *1866—1918*, vol. 2 :*Machtstaat vor der Demokratie*  , Munich,1992.    

  Nish, Ian, *Japanese Foreign Policy*  *1869—1942*  , London,1977.    

  Noakes, Jeremy, and Pridham, Geoffrey (eds.), *Nazism*  *1919—1945*  .*A Documentary Reader*  ,4 vols., Exeter,1983—98.    

  Nobumasa, Tanaka (ed.),*Dokyumento Showa Tenno Dai Nikkan*  [ Documents of the Showa Emperor], vol. 2, Tokyo, 1988 [ in Japanese].    

  Oka, Yoshitake,*Konoe Fumimaro. A Political Biography*  , Tokyo,1983.    

  Overy, R. J.,*War and Economy in the Third Reich*  , Oxford,1994.    

 ——*Why the Allies Won*  , London,1995.    

 ——*Russia』s War*  , London,1997.    

 ——*The Dictators. Hitler』s Germany and Stalin』s Russia*  , London,2004.    

  Packard, Reynolds, and Packard, Eleanor,*Balcony Empire. Fascist Italy at War*  , London,1943.    

  von Papen, Franz,*Memoirs*  , London,1952.    

  Parker, R. A. C.,*Chamberlain and Appeasement. British Policy and the Coming of the Second World War*  , London,1993.    

 ——*Churchill and Appeasement*  , London,2000.    

  Payne, Stanley G., *A History of Fascism*  *1914—45*  , London,1995.    

  Picker, Dr Henry, *Hitlers Tischgespr*  *äche im Führerhauptquartier*  *1941—1942*  , ed. Percy Ernst Schramm, Stuttgart,1963.    

  Pious, Richard M.,*The American Presidency*  , New York,1979.    

  Piper, Ernst,*Alfred Rosenberg. Hitlers Chefideologe*  , Munich,2005.    

  Pleshakov, Constantine, *Stalin』s Folly. The Secret History of the German Invasion of Russia, June*  *1941*  , London,2005.    

  Poliakov, Lé on,*The History of Anti-Semitism*  , vol.4 : *Suicidal Europe,*  *1870—1933*  , Oxford,1977.    

*Political Strategy Prior to the Outbreak of War (Parts III*  *—* *IV)*  , Office of the Chief of Military History, Department of the Army, Japanese Monographs,144—50, n.d.    

  Pope, Stephen, and Wheal, Elizabeth-Anne,*The Macmillan Dictionary of the First World War*  , London,1995.    

  Prange, Gordon W.,*At Dawn We Slept. The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor*  , London,1982.    

  Preston, Paul, 『Franco and Hitler. The Myth of Hendaye1940 』,*Contemporary European History*  ,1 (1992).    

  *Der Prozeßgegen die Hauptkriegsverbrecher vor dem Internationalen Milit*  *ärgerichtshof, N*  *ürnberg, 14*  . *November*  *1945—1*  . *Oktober*  *1946*, 42 vols., Nuremberg,1947—9.    

*Public Opinion*  *1935—1946*  , ed. Hadley Cantrill, Westport, Conn.,1951.    

*The Public Papers and Addresses of Franklin D. Roosevelt*  , ed. Samuel I. Rosenman,13 vols., New York,1938—50.    

  Radzinsky, Edvard,*Stalin*  , New York,1996.    

  Raeder, Erich,*Mein Leben*  , Tübingen/Neckar, 1957.    

  Rauscher, Walter,*Hitler und Mussolini. Macht, Krieg und Terror*  , Graz,2001.    

  Rauschning, Hermann,*Hitler Speaks*  , London,1939.    

  Read, Anthony, and Fisher, David, *The Deadly Embrace. Hitler, Stalin and the Nazi*  *–Soviet Pact*  *1939—1941*  , London,1988.    

  Rebentisch, Dieter, *F*  *ü* *hrerstaat und Verwaltung im Zweiten Weltkrieg*  , Stuttgart,1989.    

  Reese, Roger R., 『The Red Army and the Great Purges』, in J. Arch Getty and Roberta T. Manning (eds.),*Stalinist Terror. New Perspectives*  , Cambridge,1993.    

  Renshaw, Patrick,*Franklin D. Roosevelt. Profiles in Power*  , London,2004.    

  Reynaud, Paul, *In the Thick of the Fight*  *1930—1945*  , London,1955.    

  Reynolds, David, *The Creation of the Anglo-American Alliance*  *1937—1941*  .*A Study in Competitive Co-operation*  , Chapel Hill, NC,1982.    

 —— 『Churchill and the British "Decision」 to Fight on in1940 . Right Policy, Wrong Reasons』, in Richard Langhorne (ed.),*Diplomacy and Intelligence during the Second World War*  , Cambridge,1985.    

 —— 『Churchill the Appeaser? Between Hitler, Roosevelt and Stalin in World War Two』, in Michael Dockrill and Brian McKercher (eds.), *Diplomacy and World Power. Studies in British Foreign Policy,*  *1890—1950*  , Cambridge,1996.    

 ——*From Munich to Pearl Harbor. Roosevelt』s America and the Origins of the Second World War*  , Chicago,2001.    

 ——*In Command of History. Churchill Fighting and Writing the Second World War*  , London,2004.    

*The Ribbentrop Memoirs*  , London,1954.    

  von Rintelen, Enno, *Mussolini als Bundesgenosse. Erinnerungen des deutschen Milit*  *ärattachésinRom 1936—1943*, Tübingen/ Stuttgart,1951.    

  Roberts, Andrew,*『The Holy Fox』. The Life of Lord Halifax*  , paperback edn., London,1997.    

  Roberts, Geoffrey,*Unholy Alliance. Stalin』s Pact with Hitler*  , London,1989.    

 ——*The Soviet Union and the Origins of the Second World War. Russo-German Relations and the Road to War,*  *1933—1941*  , London,1995.    

 ——*Stalin』s Wars. From World War to Cold War,*  *1939—1953*  , New Haven/London, 2006.    

  Rock, William R., *Chamberlain and Roosevelt. British Foreign Policy and the United States,*  *1937—1940*  , Columbus, Ohio,1988.    

*The Roosevelt Letters*  , vol.3: *[1928—1945]*  , ed. Elliott Roosevelt, London,1952.    

  Roseman, Mark,*The Villa, the Lake, the Meeting. Wannsee and the Final Solution*  , London,2002.    

  Rotundo, Louis, 『Stalin and the Outbreak of War in1941 』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,24 (1989).    

  Rybin, A. T.,*Next to Stalin. Notes of a Bodyguard*  , Toronto,1996.    

  Sadkovich, James J., 『Understanding Defeat. Reappraising Italy』s Role in World War II』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,24 (1989).    

 —— 『The Italo-Greek War in Context. Italian Priorities and Axis Diplomacy』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,28 (1993).    

  Salewski, Michael, *Die deutsche Seekriegsleitung*  *1935—1945*, vol. 1 , Frankfurt am Main,1970.    

 ——*Die deutsche Seekriegsleitung*  *1935—1945*, vol. 3 , Frankfurt am Main,1973.    

  Sapir, Jacques, 『The Economics of War in the Soviet Union during World War II』, in Ian Kershaw and Moshe Lewin (eds.),*Stalinism and Nazism. Dictatorships in Comparison*  , Cambridge,1997.    

  Sathre, Eugene, 『Communication and Conflict: Japanese Foreign Policy leading to the Pacific War』, unpublished Ph.D. thesis, University of Minnesota,1978.    

  Schleunes, Karl A., *The Twisted Road to Auschwitz. Nazi Policy toward German Jews*  *1933—1939*  , Urbana, Ill.,1970.    

  Schlie, Ulrich, *Kein Friede mit Deutschland. Die geheimen Gespr*  *ächeim Zweiten Weltkrieg*  *1939—1941*, Munich/Berlin, 1994.    

  Schmidt, Paul, *Statist auf diplomatischer Bu dolmetschers im Ausw*  *ähne 1923—45*  . *Erlebnisse des Chefdolmetschers im Ausw*  *ärtigen Amt mit den Staatsm*  *ä* *nnern Europas*  , Bonn,1953.    

  Schramm-von Thadden, Ehrengard, *Griechenland und die Gr*  *öchte imß* *ma Zweiten Weltkrieg*  , Wiesbaden,1955.    

  Schreiber, Gerhard, *Revisionismus und Weltmachtstreben. Marinef*  *ührung und deutsch-italienische Beziehungen*  *1919 bis 1944*  , Stuttgart,1978.    

 —— 『Zur Kontinuität des Groß -und Weltmachtstrebens der deutschen Marinefü hrung』, *Milit*  *ä* *rgeschichtliche Mitteilungen*  ,25/2 (1979).    

 —— 『Der Mittelmeerraum in Hitlers Strategie1940 . "Programm」 und militä rische Planung』, *Milit*  *ä* *rgeschichtliche Mitteilungen*  ,27/2 (1980).    

  Schroeder, Christa, *Er war mein Chef. Aus dem Nachla*  *ß* *der Sekreta Hitler*  , ed. Anton Joachimsthaler, Munich/Vienna, 1985.    

  Schroeder, Paul W., *The Axis Alliance and Japanese-American Relations*  *1941*  , Ithaca, NY,1958.    

  Schwendemann, Heinrich, *Die wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit zwischen dem Deutschen Reich und der Sowjetunion von*  *1939 bis 1941*  .*Alternative zu Hitlers Ostprogramm?*  , Berlin,1993.    

  Seaton, Albert,*Stalin as Warlord*  , London,1976.    

*The Second World War Diary of Hugh Dalton,*  *1940—1945*  , ed. Ben Pimlott, London,1988.    

  Seiichi, Imai, 『Cabinet, Emperor, and Senior Statesmen』, in Dorothy Borg and Shumpei Okamoto (eds.), *Pearl Harbor as History. Japanese-American Relations*  *1931—1941*  , New York,1973.    

*Sekrety Gitlera no stole u Stalina*  [ Hitler』s Secrets on Stalin』s Desk] , Moscow,1995.    

  Sella, Amnon, 『"Barbarossa」. Surprise Attack and Communication』,*Journal of Contemporary History*  ,1 (1978).    

  Service, Robert,*Stalin. A Biography*  , London,2004.    

  Sherry, Michael S.,*The Rise of American Air Power. The Creation of Armageddon*  , New Haven/London, 1987.    

  Sherwood, Robert E.,*The White House Papers of Harry L. Hopkins*  ,2 vols., London,1948.    

  Shigeo, Misawa, and Saburo, Minomiya, 『The Role of the Diet and Political Parties』, in Dorothy Borg and Shumpei Okamoto (eds.), *Pearl Harbor as History. Japanese-American Relations*  *1931—1941*  , New York,1973.    

  Shinjiro, Nagaoka, 『Economic Demands on the Dutch East Indies』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

 —— 『The Drive into Southern Indochina and Thailand』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The Fateful Choice. Japan』s Advance into Southeast Asia,*  *1939—1941*  , New York,1980.    

  Shirer, William L., *Berlin Diary,*  *1934—1941*  , paperback edn., London,1970.    

  Smith, Richard Norton, *The Colonel. The Life and Legend of Robert R. McCormick*  *1880—1955*, Boston/ New York,1997.    

  Smith, Woodruff D.,*The Ideological Origins of Nazi Imperialism*  , New York/Oxford, 1986.    

  Sommer, Theo, *Deutschland und Japan zwischen den M*  *ächten 1935—1940*  . *Vom Antikominternpakt zum Dreim*  *ä* *chtepakt*  , Tübingen, 1962.    

  Speer, Albert,*Erinnerungen*  , Frankfurt am Main,1969.    

  Spotswood, Roger D., 『Japan』s Southward Advance as an Issue in Japanese-American Relations,1940—1941 』, unpublished Ph.D. thesis, University of Washington,1974.    

  *Staatsmänner und Diplomaten bei Hitler. Vertrauliche Aufzeichnungen*  *über die Unterredungen mit Vertretern des Auslandes*  *1939—1941*  , ed. Andreas Hillgruber, paperback edn., Munich,1969.    

  Stafford, David,*Roosevelt and Churchill. Men of Secrets*  , paperback edn., London,2000.    

  Stauffer, Paul, *Zwischen Hofmannsthal und Hitler: Carl J. Burckhardt. Facetten einer aussergew*  *ö* *hnlichen Existenz*  , Zurich,1991.    

  Steiner, Zara, *The Lights that Failed. European International History*  *1919—1933*  , Oxford,2005.    

  Stevenson, David,*Cataclysm. The First World War as Political Tragedy*  , New York,2004.    

  Stimson, Henry L., and Bundy, McGeorge,*On Active Service in Peace and War*  , New York,1948.    

  Stoakes, Geoffrey,*Hitler and the Quest for World Dominion*  , Leamington Spa,1986.    

  Stoler, Mark A.,*Allies and Adversaries. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Grand Alliance, and U.S. Strategy in World War II*  , Chapel Hill, NC/London, 2000.    

  Streim, Alfred,*Die Behandlung sowjetischer Kriegsgefangener im 『Fall Barbarossa』*  , Heidelberg/ Karlsruhe,1981.    

  Sudoplatov, Pavel, and Sudoplatov, Anatoli,*Special Tasks: The Memoirs of an Unwanted Witness. A Soviet Spymaster*  , Boston,1994.    

  Sullivan, Brian R., "Where One Man, and Only One Man, Led』. Italy』s Path from Non-Alignment to Non-Belligerency to War,1937—1940 』, in Neville Wylie (ed.),*European Neutrals and Non-Belligerents during the Second World War*  , Cambridge,2002.    

  Suny, Gregor, 『Stalin and his Stalinism. Power and Authority in the Soviet Union』, in Ian Kershaw and Moshe Lewin (eds.),*Stalinism and Nazism. Dictatorships in Comparison*  , Cambridge,1997.    

  Syring, Enrico, 『Hitlers Kriegserklä rung an Amerika vom11 . Dezember1941 』, in Wolfgang Michalka (ed.), *Der Zweite Weltkrieg. Analysen, Grundz*  *ü* *ge, Forschungsbilanz*  , Munich/Zurich, 1989.    

  *Die Tagebü* *cher von Joseph Goebbels*  , ed. Elke Frö hlich, part I:*Aufzeichnungen*  ,9 vols.; part II: *Diktate*  *1941—1945*, 15 vols., Munich,1993—2005.    

  Tansill, Charles Callan,*Back Door to War. The Roosevelt Foreign Policy*  , Chicago,1952.    

  Taylor, A. J. P.,*The Origins of the Second World War*  , Harmondsworth,1964.    

 ——*English History*  *1914—1945*  , Harmondsworth,1970.    

*The Testament of Adolf Hitler. The Hitler*  *–Bormann Documents, February*  *—April 1945*  , ed. Franç ois Genoud, London,1961.    

  Thomas, Charles S.,*The German Navy in the Nazi Era*  , London,1990.    

  Tokushiro, Ohata, 『The Anti-Comintern Pact,1935—1939 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *Deterrent Diplomacy. Japan, Germany, and the USSR*  *1935—1940*  , New York,1976.    

  Toland, John, *The Rising Sun. The Decline and Fall of the Japanese Empire,*  *1936—1945*  , New York,1970 , Modern Library edn.,2003.    

 ——*Adolf Hitler*  , London,1977.    

  Tolstoy, Nicolai,*Stalin』s Secret War*  , London,1981.    

  Tooze, Adam,*The Wages of Destruction. The Making and Breaking of the Nazi Economy*  , London,2006.    

  Toshihiko, Shimada, 『Designs on North China1933—1937 』, in James William Morley (ed.), *The China Quagmire. Japan』s Expansion on the Asian Continent,*  *1933—1941*  , New York,1983.    

  Toscano, Mario,*The Origins of the Pact of Steel*  , Baltimore,1967.    

  Treue, Wilhelm (ed.), 『Rede Hitlers vor der deutschen Presse (10 . November1938 )』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,6 (1958).    

*Trial of the Major War Criminals before the International Military Tribunal*  ,  *14November*  *1945—1 October 1946*, 42 vols., Nuremberg,1947—9.    

  Tucker, Robert C., *Stalin in Power. The Revolution from Above,*  *1928—1941*  , New York,1990.    

 Ueberschä r, Gerd R., and Bezymenskij, Lev A. (eds.), *Der deutsche Angriff auf die Sowjetunion*  *1941*  . *Die Kontroverse um die Pr*  *ä* *ventivkriegsthese*  , Darmstadt,1998.    

 ——『Hitlers Ü berfall auf die Sowjetunion1941 und Stalins Absichten. Die Bewertung in der deutschen Geschichtsschreibung und die neuere "Prä ventivkriegsthese」』, in Gerd R. Ueberschä r and Lev A. Bezymenskij (eds.), *Der deutsche Angriff auf die Sowjetunion*  *1941*  . *Die Kontroverse um die Pr*  *ä* *ventivkriegsthese*  , Darmstadt,1998.    

  Ulam, Adam,*Stalin. The Man and his Era*  , Boston,1989.    

  van der Vat, Dan, *The Atlantic Campaign. The Great Struggle at Sea*  *1939—1945*  , London,1988.    

  Villari, Luigi,*Italian Foreign Policy under Mussolini*  , London,1959.    

  Visconti Prasca, Sebastiano,*Io ho aggredito la Grecia*  ,2 nd edn., Milan,1947.    

  Vogelsang, Thilo, 『Neue Dokumente zur Geschichte der Reichswehr1930—1933 』, *Vierteljahrshefte f*  *ü* *r Zeitgeschichte*  ,2 (1954).    

  Volkogonov, Dmitri,*Stalin. Triumph and Tragedy*  , New York,1991.    

  Warlimont, Walter, *Inside Hitler』s Headquarters*  *1939—45*  , Novato, Calif., n.d. (original English-language edn., London,1964).    

  Watson, Derek,*Molotov. A Biography*  , London,2005.    

  Weeks, Albert L., *Stalin』s Other War. Soviet Grand Strategy*  *1939—1941*  , Lanham, Md.,2002.    

  Wehler, Hans-Ulrich, 『Die Urkatastrophe. Der Erste Weltkrieg als Auftakt und Vorbild fü r den Zweiten Weltkrieg』,*Der Spiegel*  ,8 (16 Feb. 2004).    

  Weinberg, Gerhard L., 『German Colonial Plans and Policies1938—1942 』, in Waldemar Besson and Friedrich Frhr. Hiller v. Gaertringen (eds.), *Geschichte und Gegenwartsbewu*  *ß* *tsein. Historische Betrachtungen und Untersuchungen*  , Göttingen, 1963.    

 —— 『Hitler』s Image of the United States』,*American Historical Review*  ,69 (1964).    

 ——*The Foreign Policy of Hitler』s Germany. Diplomatic Revolution in Europe*  *1933—36*, Chicago/London, 1970.    

 ——*The Foreign Policy of Hitler』s Germany. Starting World War II,*  *1937—1939*, Chicago/London, 1980.    

 ——*A World at Arms. A Global History of World War II*  , Cambridge,1994.    

 Weizsä cker, Ernst von,*Erinnerungen*  , Munich/Leipzig/ Freiburg,1950.    

  *Die Weizsäcker-Papiere*  *1933—1950*  , ed. Leonidas E. Hill, Frankfurt am Main,1974.    

  Welles, Sumner,*The Time for Decision*  , London,1944.    

 ——*Seven Major Decisions*  , London,1951.    

  Werth, Alexander, *Russia at War,*  *1941—1945*  , paperback edn., New York,1984.    

  Weston, Mark,*Giants of Japan. The Lives of Japan』s Greatest Men and Women*  , New York/Tokyo/London, 1999.    

  Whaley, Barton,*Codeword Barbarossa*  , Cambridge, Mass.,1973.    

  Whittam, John,*Fascist Italy*  , Manchester,1995.    

  Whymant, Robert,*Stalin』s Spy. Richard Sorge and the Tokyo Espionage Ring*  , London/ New York,1996.    

  Wildt, Michael, *Die Judenpolitik des SD*  *1935 bis 1938*  .*Eine Dokumentation*  , Munich,1995.    

 ——*Generation des Unbedingten. Das F*  *ü* *hrungskorps des Reichssicherheitshauptamtes*  , Hamburg,2002.    

  Wilson, Theodore A., *The First Summit. Roosevelt and Churchill at Placentia Bay*  *1941*  , London,1970.    

  Wiskemann, Elizabeth, *The Rome*  *–* *Berlin Axis. A Study of the Relations between Hitler and Mussolini*  , London,1966.    

  Wistrich, Robert S.,*Hitler and the Holocaust*  , New York,2001.    

  Wohlstetter, Roberta,*Pearl Harbor. Warning and Decision*  , Stanford, Calif.,1962.    

  Woodward, Llewellyn,*British Foreign Policy in the Second World War*  , vol.1 , London,1970.    

  Woolf, S. J. (ed.),*Fascism in Europe*  ,2 nd edn., London,1981.    

  Wright, Jonathan,*Gustav Stresemann, Weimar』s Greatest Statesman*  , Oxford,2002.    

  Wylie, Neville (ed.),*European Neutrals and Non-Belligerents during the Second World War*  , Cambridge,2002.    

  Zamagni, Vera, 『Italy: How to Lose the War and Win the Peace』, in Mark Harrison (ed.),*The Economics of World War II. Six Great Powers in International Comparison*  , Cambridge,1998.    

  Zhukov, G.,*Reminiscences and Reflections*  ,2 vols., Moscow,1985. 


备案号:YX01YpZWd3lxaMpGM

